Adapt to ICM Security and Interoperability Profile (#208)
camaraproject/Commonalities: documentation/API-design-guidelines.md

|**Header**| HTTP Headers allow client and server send additional information joined to the request or response. A request header is divided by name (No case sensitive) followed by a colon and the header value (without line breaks). White spaces on the left hand from the value are ignored.|
|**HTTP**| Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a communication protocol that allows the information transfer using files (XHTML, HTML…) in World Wide Web.|
|**JSON**| The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format [RFC8259](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8259) |
|**JWT**| JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard based on JSON [RFC7519](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519) |
|**Kebab-case**| Practice in the words denomination where the hyphen is used to separate words. |
|**OAuth2**| Open Authorization is an open standard that allows simple Authorization flows to be used in websites or applications. [RFC6749](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749)|
|**OIDC**| [OpenId Connect](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html) is standard based on OAuth2 that adds authentication and consent to OAuth2.|

> |**CIBA**| [Client-initiated Bachckannel authentication](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html) is a standard based on OIDC that enabels API consumers to intiate an authentication.|

Reviewer: Small typo corrected and letter capitalization according to OpenID specs:
```suggestion
|**CIBA**| [Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html) is a standard based on OIDC that enabels API consumers to intiate an authentication.|
```

> |**CIBA**| [Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html) is a standard based on OIDC that enabels API consumers to intiate an authentication.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|**CIBA**| [Client-Initiated Backchannel Authentication](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html) is a standard based on OIDC that enables API consumers to intiate an authentication.|
```

#### OpenAPI security schemes definition

Security in OpenAPI is expressed by [security schemes](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3#security-scheme-object). Security can be expressed for the API as a whole or for each endpoint.

As specified in [Use of openIdConnect for securitySchemes](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-openidconnect-for-securityschemes), all Camara OpenAPI files must include the following a scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section. The schema definition is repeated in this document for illustration purposes, the correct format must be extracted from the link above.

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    openId:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

The key of the security scheme is arbitrary in OAS, but convention in CAMARA is to name it `openId`.

#### Expressing Security Requirements

Security requirements of an API are expressed in OpenAPI through [Security Requirement Objects](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3#security-requirement-object).

> Following is an example on how to use the `openId` security scheme defined above as defined in [Use of security property](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-security-property):
> 
> ```yaml
> paths:
>   {path}:
>     {method}:
>       ...
>       security:
>         - openId:
>             - {scope}
> 
> The name `openId` must be same as defined in the components.securitySchemes section.

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
The following is an example of how to use the `openId` security scheme defined above as described in [Use of security property](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-security-property):

```yaml
paths:
  {path}:
    {method}:
      ...
      security:
        - openId:
            - {scope}
```

The name `openId` must be same as defined in the components.securitySchemes section.
````

Fixing typos and example format this time... I hope... :S

### 11.6 Security definition

In general all APIs must be secured to assure who has access to what and for what purpose.
Camara uses OIDC and CIBA for authentication and consent collection and to determine whether the user has e.g. opted-out of some API access.

The [Camara Security and Interoperability Profile](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-Security-Interoperability.md#purpose) defines that a single purpose is encoded in the list of scope values. The purpose is defined by W3C Privacy Vocabulatory in the [purpose section](https://w3c.github.io/dpv/dpv/#vocab-purposes).

#### OpenAPI security schemes definition

Security in OpenAPI is expressed by [security schemes](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3#security-scheme-object). Security can be expressed for the API as a whole or for each endpoint.

> As specified in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-openidconnect-for-securityschemes, all Camara OpenAPI files must include the following a scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section. The schema definition is repeated in this document for illustration purposes, the correct format must be extracted from the link above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As specified in [Use of openIdConnect for securitySchemes](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-openidconnect-for-securityschemes), all Camara OpenAPI files must include the following a scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section. The schema definition is repeated in this document for illustration purposes, the correct format must be extracted from the link above.
```

> As specified in [Use of openIdConnect for securitySchemes](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-openidconnect-for-securityschemes), all Camara OpenAPI files must include the following a scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section. The schema definition is repeated in this document for illustration purposes, the correct format must be extracted from the link above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As specified in [Use of openIdConnect for securitySchemes](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-openidconnect-for-securityschemes), all Camara OpenAPI files must include the following scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section. The schema definition is repeated in this document for illustration purposes, the correct format must be extracted from the link above.
```

All Camara OpenAPI files must include the following security scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section:

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    openId:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

The key of the security scheme is arbitrary in OAS, but convention in CAMARA is to name it `openId`.

#### Expressing Security Requirements

Security requirements of an API are expressed in OpenAPI through [Security Requirement Objects](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3#security-requirement-object).

Following is an example on how to use the `openId` security scheme defined above:

```yaml
paths:
  {path}:
    {method}:
      ...
      security:
        - openId:
            - {scope}
```

The name `openId` must be same as defined in the components.securitySchemes section.

#### Mandatory template for `info.description` in CAMARA API specs

The documentation template below must be used as part of the API documentation in  `info.description` property in the CAMARA API specs:

```
### Authorization and authentication

> CAMARA guidelines define a set of authorization flows which can grant API clients access to the API functionality, as outlined in the document [CAMARA Interoperability and Security Profile](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-Security-Interoperability.md). Which specific authorization flows are to be used will be determined during onboarding process, happening between the API Client and the Telco Operator exposing the API, taking into account the declared purpose for accessing the API, while also being subject to the prevailing legal framework dictated by local legislation.
> 
> It is important to remark that in cases where personal user data is processed by the API, and users can exercise their rights through mechanisms such as opt-in and/or opt-out, the use of 3-legged access tokens becomes mandatory. This measure ensures that the API remains in strict compliance with user privacy preferences and regulatory obligations, upholding the principles of transparency and user-centric data control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Authorization and authentication

CAMARA guidelines defines a set of authorization flows which can grant API clients access to the API functionality, as outlined in the document [CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md). Which specific authorization flows are to be used will be determined during onboarding process, happening between the API Client and the Telco Operator exposing the API, taking into account the declared purpose for accessing the API, while also being subject to the prevailing legal framework dictated by local legislation.

It is important to remark that in cases where personal user data is processed by the API, and users can exercise their rights through mechanisms such as opt-in and/or opt-out, the use of 3-legged access tokens becomes mandatory. This measure ensures that the API remains in strict compliance with user privacy preferences and regulatory obligations, upholding the principles of transparency and user-centric data control.
```

Reviewer 3: Please don't change the template content agreed at TSC.

And in any case, IMHO, the 11.6 Security Definition section should be out of the scope of this PR as it is not related to the content of the new ICM profile document). ICM [CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md) already documents "CAMARA API Specification - Authorization and authentication common guidelines" and this document is also being adapted to ICM Security and Interoperability Profile (https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/pull/155)

Author: We should make it clear that the normative Text is in [CAMARA Interoperability and Security Profile](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-Security-Interoperability.md) and if there is a contradiction e.g. in the diagrams in  [CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md) then the profile rulez.

### 11.6 Security definition

In general all APIs must be secured to assure who has access to what and for what purpose.
Camara uses OIDC and CIBA for authentication and consent collection and to determine whether the user has e.g. opted-out of some API access.

The [Camara Security and Interoperability Profile](https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-Security-Interoperability.md#purpose) defines that a single purpose is encoded in the list of scope values. The purpose is defined by W3C Privacy Vocabulatory in the [purpose section](https://w3c.github.io/dpv/dpv/#vocab-purposes).

#### OpenAPI security schemes definition

Security in OpenAPI is expressed by [security schemes](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3#security-scheme-object). Security can be expressed for the API as a whole or for each endpoint.

> All Camara OpenAPI files must include the following security scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As specified in https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-openidconnect-for-securityschemes, all Camara OpenAPI files must include the following security scheme definition, with an adapted `openIdConnectUrl` in its components section:
```

```yaml
components:
  securitySchemes:
    openId:
      type: openIdConnect
      openIdConnectUrl: https://example.com/.well-known/openid-configuration
```

The key of the security scheme is arbitrary in OAS, but convention in CAMARA is to name it `openId`.

#### Expressing Security Requirements

Security requirements of an API are expressed in OpenAPI through [Security Requirement Objects](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3#security-requirement-object).

> Following is an example on how to use the `openId` security scheme defined above:
> 
> ```yaml
> paths:
>   {path}:
>     {method}:
>       ...
>       security:
>         - openId:
>             - {scope}
> ```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Following is an example on how to use the `openId` security scheme defined above:

```yaml
paths:
  {path}:
    {method}:
      ...
      security:
        - openId:
            - {scope}
```
An example on how to use the `openId` security scheme can be retrieved from https://github.com/camaraproject/IdentityAndConsentManagement/blob/main/documentation/CAMARA-API-access-and-user-consent.md#use-of-security-property.

```
